JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
Gwen Ifill is away.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
JAMES COMEY, FBI Director: No
charges are
appropriate in this case.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Despite declaring
Hillary Clinton's
use of a private e-mail server
while secretary
of state extremely careless, the
FBI says
there is not enough evidence to
bring criminal
charges.
Then, we kick off a new series,
Fault Lines.
We go in the trenches to see how
one isolated
town is fighting fiercely to
separate from
Ukraine and join Russia.
ANYA, Ukraine (through
translator): I'm ready
to die for my home. I will not
let A single
fascist into my home. I will
fight them as
long as my heart beats.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And an update
from Baltimore:
Another police officer stands
trial this week
in the death of a 25-year-old
black man, Freddie
Gray. A look at why the
prosecution is having
such a hard time making its
case.
All that and more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: For Hillary
Clinton today,
a recommendation and a rebuke
from the Federal
Bureau of Investigation. It came
after a year-long
investigation into her use of a
private e-mail
server when she was the nation's
top diplomat.
JAMES COMEY, FBI Director: No
charges are
appropriate in this case.
JUDY WOODRUFF: With those seven
words, FBI
Director James Comey all but
lifted the legal
threat to the Democrats'
presidential nominee-to-be.
He said, in essence,
investigators found no
wanton wrongdoing to make
criminal charges
stick.
JAMES COMEY: Although there is
evidence of
potential violations of the
statutes regarding
the handling of classified
information, our
judgment is that no reasonable
prosecutor
would bring such a case.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But Comey also
spoke in blistering
terms about Clinton's use of a
private e-mail
server as secretary of state.
JAMES COMEY: Although we didn't
find clear
evidence that Secretary Clinton
or her colleagues
intended to violate laws
governing the handling
of classified information, there
is evidence
that they were extremely
careless in their
handling of very sensitive,
highly classified
information.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Clinton has
acknowledged it
was a mistake to use a private
e-mail system,
but she's asserted that
classified material
was never handled improperly.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
I didn't e-mail any classified
material to
anyone on my e-mail. There is no
classified
material.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Today, however,
the FBI found
that 110 e-mails contained
information that
was classified when it was sent
or received.
And the FBI also found it is --
quote -- "possible"
that hostile actors got access
to the secretary's
account.
JAMES COMEY: Any reasonable
person in Secretary
Clinton's position, or in the
position of
those with whom she was
corresponding about
these matters, should have known
that an unclassified
system was no place for that
conversation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The announcement
came after
the FBI interviewed Clinton for
three-and-a-half-hours
on Saturday. The candidate was
speaking in
Washington as Comey made his
report. She didn't
address it there, or later, in
Charlotte,
North Carolina.
Instead, her campaign issued a
statement,
saying: "We are pleased that the
career officials
handling this case have
determined that no
further action is appropriate.
We are glad
that this matter is now
resolved."
Republican reaction to Comey's
announcement
was swift and strongly negative.
The GOP's
presumptive presidential nominee
Donald Trump
took to Twitter, saying: "No
charges. Wow.
#riggedsystem."
And House Speaker Paul Ryan said
in a statement:
"This announcement defies
explanation. No
one should be above the law."
The White House said it would
have no official
response to the FBI findings.
They now go to the Justice
Department, where
Attorney General Loretta Lynch
said last week
she will follow prosecutors'
recommendations.
That followed a furor over her
impromptu meeting
with former President Bill
Clinton. The FBI
also found the State Department
was generally
lax about handling classified
material.
A department spokesman responded
that, "We
take it very, very seriously."
We will take a closer look at
the FBI findings
after this news summary.
All of this unfolded on the same
day that
President Obama campaigned with
Hillary Clinton
for the first time this year.
The one-time
rivals flew together on Air
Force One, and
appeared at a rally in
Charlotte, North Carolina.
The president said Clinton is
ready for the
Oval Office.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
I can tell you this. Hillary
Clinton has been
tested, she has seen up close
what's involved
in making those decisions, and
there has never
been any man or woman more
qualified for this
office than Hillary Clinton,
ever.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Republican Donald
Trump also
campaigns in North Carolina
tonight.
Iraqi search teams recovered
more bodies in
Baghdad today, and the death
toll from Sunday's
bombing soared to 250.
Distraught family members
held funeral processions in the
Iraqi capital.
They carried caskets past
charred buildings
as word came that the country's
interior minister
has resigned.
Meanwhile, officials in
Istanbul, Turkey,
jailed 17 more suspects in last
week's airport
bombings that killed 45.
An El-Al flight from New York to
Tel Aviv
made it safely to Israel today
after a bomb
threat that turned out to be a
hoax. The flight
was escorted across Europe by
French, Swiss
and Bulgarian warplanes. In Tel
Aviv, family
members anxiously waited for
relatives who'd
been on board and were unaware
of the drama
until landing.
DAVID MACHLIS, Passenger: I
heard that the
plane was accompanied by a
fighter plane,
from Switzerland or from what,
but I didn't
see it. And just as well that I
didn't see
it. It wouldn't have helped my
situation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: El-Al, Israel's
national carrier,
is considered one of the world's
most secure
airlines.
There's fresh economic fallout
from Britain's
decision to leave the European
Union. The
British pound tumbled today to a
new 31-year
low against the dollar, while
business confidence
dropped sharply. And major real
estate funds
moved to stop a run on their
assets. The Bank
of England reacted with moves to
help banks
free up more money for lending.
In France, the government
invoked special
constitutional powers to push a
labor reform
bill closer to enactment. The
measure would
make it easier to hire and fire
workers, and
it has angered labor unions.
Thousands of
union members marched through
Paris in protest
today, and opposition lawmakers
walked out
as the prime minister defended
the bill in
the National Assembly.
MANUEL VALLS, French Prime
Minister (through
translator): I decided after
much deliberation
to commit the responsibility of
the government
to the vote in its new reading.
The government
is proudly transparent, and
proudly courageous,
because we are acting in the
interests of
the French people.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The labor bill
still has to
get through the French Senate
and through
the National Assembly a final
time.
On Wall Street, stocks fell as
concerns about
Britain's economy grew and oil
prices slumped.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost 108
points to close at 17840. The
Nasdaq fell
39 points, and the S&P 500
slipped 14.
NASA's Juno spacecraft is now
safely in orbit
around Jupiter. The
solar-powered probe completed
the final leg of its five-year
journey last
night. On the ground, in
Pasadena, California,
the flight team burst into
cheers as Juno
beamed back signals confirming
its arrival.
DIANE BROWN, Juno Program
Executive: It's
amazing. I mean, the more you
know about the
mission, you know just how
tricky this was,
and to have it be flawless, I
mean, I can't
really put it into words. You
imagine what
it might feel like, but to
actually have it,
to know that we can all go to
bed tonight
not worrying about what is going
to happen
tomorrow, it's pretty awesome.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Beginning in
August, the probe
is due to begin its mission of
mapping Jupiter
over a period of 20 months.
And former Congressman, federal
judge and
White House counsel Abner Mikva
died Monday
of bladder cancer. The Illinois
Democrat spent
10 years in the House, before
serving on a
federal appeals court, and then
at the Clinton
White House. He received the
Presidential
Medal of Freedom in 2014. And in
a statement
today, President Obama called
him a mentor
and friend. Abner Mikva was 90
years old.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
how the FBI's
recommendation of no criminal
charges against
Hillary Clinton could influence
the election;
inside the simmering conflict in
Ukraine's
separatist regions; questions of
justice denied
in the Freddie Gray trial; and
much more.
separatist regions; questions of
justice denied
in the Freddie Gray trial; and
much more.
And now back to today's
announcement from
the FBI, and the bureau's
year-long probe
into Hillary Clinton's e-mail
practices as
secretary of state.
First, we will delve into the
FBI's findings
with Carrie Johnson. She's
justice correspondent
for NPR.
Carrie Johnson, welcome back to
the "NewsHour."
First of all, you told us today
that what
the FBI director did, how he
said this today
was unusual. What did you mean
by that?
CARRIE JOHNSON, NPR: Judy, maybe
even unprecedented.
Nobody I have talked with who's
worked with
the Justice Department or the
FBI over the
past 25 years can remember an
incident in
which an FBI director held a
news conference
to announce his recommendation
about an ongoing
criminal matter.
That is what has happened today.
And, moreover,
FBI Director Jim Comey entered
into an unusual
amount of detail about the
nature of the investigation
and all of the steps that the
FBI has taken,
painstaking steps, thousands of
hours of FBI
agents' time, a puzzle -- the
FBI director
likened to getting a jigsaw
puzzle that's
completed, dumping it on the
ground and putting
all the pieces back together
again.
That's what Jim Comey says the
FBI's task
was here investigating Hillary
Clinton's e-mail
server.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And yet, in the
end...
CARRIE JOHNSON: In fact, for
the...
JUDY WOODRUFF: I was just going
to say...
(CROSSTALK)
CARRIE JOHNSON: I'm sorry.
JUDY WOODRUFF: No, go ahead.
Finish your thought.
CARRIE JOHNSON: Sure.
In fact, he said that it wasn't
just one e-mail
server, Judy. Apparently, she
used different
servers over time and multiple
different BlackBerrys,
so this was kind of a
complicated investigation,
more than we knew.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And yet, in the
end, Director
Comey said they didn't feel
there was sufficient
information, there was no
determination that
criminal charges should be made.
I think people
are having a hard time squaring
that.
CARRIE JOHNSON: Yes, including
some Republicans,
as you mentioned in your
newscast.
So what the FBI director said
was they looked
at three different things in the
course of
this investigation, and
ultimately concluded
that no reasonable prosecutor
would bring
a criminal case based on the
facts that the
FBI had at hand.
What they were looking at was,
A, whether
Hillary Clinton's e-mail server
had been hacked
by any foreign governments or
criminals, B,
whether there was any willful or
intentional
activity with respect to
mishandling classified
information, and, C, whether
there was negligence,
gross negligence, in the
handling of government
secrets.
Now, what the FBI concluded
after reviewing
tens of thousands of pages of
documents, interviewing
Hillary Clinton on Saturday for
three-and-a-half-hours
in a room, and many of her
closest aides,
was that they could find no
clear evidence
of intent to mishandle
government information
and government secrets, no
direct evidence
whatsoever that anybody engaged
in obstruction
of justice or lied to
investigators and, certainly,
the FBI director said, no
evidence of spying
or disloyalty to the U.S.
government.
And because they looked back at
a series of
plea deals and indictments over
the last many
years, they couldn't find a case
quite like
this one. Jim Comey said the
facts were just
not there to go forward with an
intentional
criminal case against Hillary
Clinton or against
anybody else in her inner
circle.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, Carrie
Johnson,
thank you.
And we know that it's now up to
the Department
of Justice to decide what to do
to make that
announcement. That comes next.
Carrie Johnson, we thank you.
CARRIE JOHNSON: Absolutely.
Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And now the
political fallout
from today's FBI announcement.
We start with Sean Spicer, chief
strategist
and communications director for
the Republican
National Committee. I spoke to
him a short
time ago.
Sean Spicer, welcome.
So, the FBI director -- the FBI
director said
that, despite the finding by his
investigators
that e-mails were handled in an
extremely
careless way, that they wouldn't
recommend
a criminal prosecution. What's
your reaction?
SEAN SPICER, Communications
Director, Republican
National Committee: Well, today
was an indictment
on Hillary Clinton's judgment
more than anything,
and an indictment on, frankly,
her fitness
to be president.
The 15-minute press conference
was started
with 14 minutes of the director
laying out
her recklessness, her
mishandling of stuff,
the culture that was created at
the State
Department. I don't see how the
conclusion
matches the first 14 minutes.
The director made a very clear
case that there
were excessive classified
e-mails that she
had handled, over 100 at the
top-secret level.
She was reckless with her --
with her handling
of e-mail.
And I think, for someone who
wants to be president
and oversee our national
security, whether
or not there was actually a
criminal indictment
is sort of beside the point. The
fact of the
matter is the FBI recognized
that her handling
of classified information, her
handling of
national security was, indeed,
reckless and
not up to someone who should be
president.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, as you
know, he said
that in order to bring a
criminal charge,
there had to be finding that
Secretary Clinton
or the people around her were
intentional
in the way they violated
whatever rules there
were at the State Department.
Are you saying
that was an erroneous finding on
his part?
SEAN SPICER: Well, obviously, I
think there
is one thing -- the
investigation, I think,
was thorough. I think there's --
I don't have
a problem with that.
I don't understand the
conclusion, to be honest
with you, on two fronts. Number
one, the definition
is gross negligence. And I think
that by what
the director laid out meets the
legal definition
of that. She clearly, whether
intentionally
or not, broke the law. The law
was broken,
the rules weren't followed.
You don't -- the law doesn't say
unless you
meant to break it. It's -- the
law is the
law, and if you break it, you
face a penalty.
Thousands of people have been
prosecuted for
mishandling classified
information, and there
is no question she was -- did
that.
But, number two, just when it
goes to the
intent, the entire reason she
set up these
private servers -- and make sure
we all get
that that's something that sort
of came out
today, that it wasn't just one
server, it
was multiple -- he talked about
how it was
susceptible to foreign hacking.
But the fact is that she set the
server up
in the first place to avoid
detection, to
avoid being monitored and to
avoid transparency.
So this wasn't the use of a
Gmail or a private
Yahoo! account. She specifically
set this
server up to evade detection and
monitoring.
That in itself goes to intent,
as far as I'm
concerned.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What is an
appropriate punishment,
in your view?
SEAN SPICER: Well, I'm not a
lawyer. I'm not
in the Department of Justice.
But I do -- I think that not
saying that you
can lay out a case of 14 minutes
of how the
-- how it was wrong and then say
that it shouldn't,
you know, be prosecuted, I don't
understand
how you square that circle,
right?
He laid out 14 minutes of ways
that she personally
mishandled classified
information, and then
said the culture at the State
Department was
reckless under her leadership.
So I don't
understand how you can come to
the conclusion
that then you don't seek
prosecution. I hope
that the Department of Justice
actually overrules
this.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Your party's
nominee for president-to-be,
Donald Trump, is saying that the
system is
rigged. He looked at what
happened, said the
system is rigged.
Do you agree with him? And, if
so, who's rigging
it?
SEAN SPICER: Well, I think
there's no question
that when you look at the
countless people
who have been prosecuted,
including General
Petraeus, you have to say, how
do you come
to this conclusion and not say
that there
should be a prosecution?
I actually believe that the
director left
more questions than he answered.
And I think
that's where I think, after a
week where the
attorney general, Loretta Lynch,
has a private
secret meeting with former
President Bill
Clinton, then Secretary Clinton
gets a special
meeting that no one else in
America would
get on the Saturday of a holiday
weekend at
FBI headquarters, and then
Tuesday they come
out with the announcement,
Tuesday afternoon,
they go to North Carolina to
have a rally,
a unity rally with the president
of the United
States on Air Force One.
I will be honest with you. I
think today created
more questions than it answered.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Sean Spicer with
the Republican
National Committee, thank you
very much.
SEAN SPICER: Thanks, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And now a
different view.
Joining us live from Capitol
Hill is U.S.
Representative Xavier Becerra of
California.
He is one of the top-ranking
Democrats in
Congress.
Representative Becerra, thank
you very much
for being here.
Even without a recommendation to
prosecute,
these were pretty damning
findings, weren't
they?
REP. XAVIER BECERRA (D),
California: Judy,
thanks for having me.
And, as we have known, and as
the secretary
of her said, we need to do
things differently,
all of us, whether it's at the
State Department
or in our own home. We have
learned that we
need to evolve, because
technology is moving
so quickly, that you can't have
the old password
that you used to have on your
e-mail account,
because you know it's not
sufficient enough
to clear you.
And, clearly, if you're going to
be passing
along information that's
classified, you're
talking about very sensitive
matters at State
Department, you have to be even
more careful.
So, yes, I think it's clear --
and the secretary
has admitted -- that we need to
make sure
that we're doing everything
possible to protect
Americans and the information
that we generate.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you
explain, though,
Congressman, Secretary Clinton's
repeated
statements that no classified
information
was sent or received, when the
FBI found that
it was?
REP. XAVIER BECERRA: And, Judy,
I think we're
all interested in learning a
little bit more
about what Director Comey was
saying, because
it could be the difference
between what you
are communicating at a
particular moment,
which doesn't receive a
classified designation
or a top-secret designation, and
afterwards
may, or, in the opinion of
someone who would
have seen that e-mail, say, at
the FBI or
at CIA, they may have said, oh,
this particular
communication should have been
classified.
There has been a dispute that's
run for years
between State Department and
some of our intelligence
agencies about what really
should be classified.
We got to the point where we
were overclassifying
information. And so it's a
matter of balance,
I think, but we will find out a
little bit
more once we all have the
information that
Director Comey was referring to.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We just heard
Sean Spicer,
a spokesman at the Republican
National Committee,
saying that, whatever was done
in a criminal
manner, that what happened with
regard to
these e-mails showed, in his
word, or demonstrated,
in his words, an indictment of
her fitness
to be president.
REP. XAVIER BECERRA: Well, let's
step back
for a moment. As Mr. Spicer
himself said,
he is not an attorney. He's a
partisan.
Clearly, his words were very
partisan, and
that's why we have not put
partisans in charge
of the investigation. We put the
professionals,
the investigators at the FBI in
charge of
this, because we don't need
partisans to start
talking about these things and
making decisions.
We want people who are
dispassionate, who
are nonpartisan, who will look
at this information
objectively.
And those who are professionals
and do this
for a living for the safety of
our country
have come to the conclusion that
the information
doesn't warrant any action
against the secretary.
So I take the word of someone
who's at the
FBI and is a professional vs.
the claims of
a partisan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, even
Democrats, though,
Congressman, say that the
decision by the
secretary to use a private
e-mail server was,
in their words -- with the
potential for classified
information to get out there,
was a serious
lapse in judgment.
REP. XAVIER BECERRA: And I think
the secretary
would say to you that she made a
mistake,
she would do it differently
today. So far,
there is no evidence that shows
that the e-mails
were hacked and that any
information was lost
to anyone in particular.
But, Judy, I think everyone
agrees the reason
the FBI is looking into this is
because it's
a serious matter. And, by the
way, this should
be a reminder to all of us, you
better be
updating your passwords. You
better be making
sure that your own systems that
you use to
communicate electronically are
secure, because
technology is running way faster
than most
people believe.
And those who are trying to do
us harm are
trying to keep up, and so it's
up to us to
do the best we can. And
certainly at the Department
of State, they certainly should
be doing the
best job possible as well.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Just very
quickly, do you now
believe this matter is closed?
REP. XAVIER BECERRA: Certainly,
it should
run the time that's necessary,
and I will
leave that to the professionals,
those who
are the investigators, to tell
us when it's
ultimately done.
Clearly, by the FBI saying that
they find
no basis to take any action, I
think we're
coming close, but we have to
hear from the
Department of Justice and their
career prosecutors.
But my sense is that, if the
evidence isn't
there to move forward with any
action, that
the prosecutors will say, we
probably need
to bring this to a close.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Representative
Xavier Becerra,
thank you very much.
REP. XAVIER BECERRA: Thank you,
Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tonight, we begin
a weeklong
series from Eastern Europe that
we're calling
Fault Lines.
On Friday, NATO will announce
the largest
military buildup in Europe since
the Cold
War. Tensions between the West
and Russia
have reached the highest level
since the fall
of the Soviet Union. This week,
we will examine
the causes of that tension.
Tonight, we begin with Europe's
only active
front line, in Eastern Ukraine.
For two years,
fighters for the self-proclaimed
Donetsk People's
Republic, with the backing of
Russia, have
fought the Ukrainian government
to gain autonomy.
The West, including the U.S., is
backing Ukraine's
government; 10,000 people have
died.
With the help of the Pulitzer
Center on Crisis
Reporting, special correspondent
Nick Schifrin
and producer Zach Fannin
traveled to Donetsk,
and discovered that what is
supposed to be
a cease-fire is anything but.
NICK SCHIFRIN: On the front line
in Eastern
Ukraine, the war is fought in
trenches.
At the end of each trench, small
outposts
are manned by men who call
themselves rebels.
They fight to separate from
Ukraine and join
Russia.
IVAN, Ukraine (through
translator): It's intense
all the time, all the time.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Ivan, who
declined to give
his last name, grew up in a
nearby village.
Their enemies, fellow Ukrainians
fighting
to stay united, are only 1,000
feet away.
IVAN (through translator): I can
see their
positions over there.
NICK SCHIFRIN: There's supposed
to be a cease-fire.
But the fighting starts every
night. On average,
one fighter for the
self-declared Donetsk
People's Republic dies every
day.
This war is like going back 100
years. This
is a trench war, and you can
hear some of
the explosions in the distance,
and not very
far away from us. These guys
have been fighting
here since January, and they say
that the
front line hasn't moved at all.
What motivates you to be here?
IVAN (through translator): My
home is five
kilometers from here. How could
I not fight
if the war is so close?
ANDREW, Ukraine: I decided to be
useful here
at least.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Andrew, who also
refused to
give his last name, is former
Soviet special
forces. He says he came here to
train a ragtag
army.
Were you sent here by Russia?
ANDREW: No. No. I'm a volunteer,
so nobody
-- nobody pay me something. I
don't see professionally
ready people. So, I see taxis. I
see drivers.
Come, guys. Let's go.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Their base used
to be a local
school. They resist Ukraine's
alliance with
Europe. They align with Russia.
And as the
war persists, their desire to
separate grows.
MAN (through translator): Once
an army targets
its own people, they become the
enemy.
ANDREW: How we can be in one
state now?
NICK SCHIFRIN: So you have to
separate now?
ANDREW: Sure. They have to
separate.
NICK SCHIFRIN: The front is
280-miles-long.
To get to the village of
Spartak, we needed
an armed escort.
On this front line, Anya, who
also declined
to give her last name, leads
what she calls
an infantry brigade. The
professional Russian
soldiers here whom U.S.
officials say number
in the thousands are invisible.
So, as we walk down this road,
what is the
risk here?
ANYA, Ukraine (through
translator): Total
risk. We're now walking in their
snipers'
scopes. Here, everything is
within their snipers'
reach.
NICK SCHIFRIN: This is incoming.
We had been here just a few
minutes when we
heard the incoming bullets above
our head,
so we have taken cover. We're
staying low
right now, and we're beginning
to hear rebel
soldiers beginning to fire back.
(GUNFIRE)
MAN (through translator): I will
take him
out quickly.
MAN (through translator): Are
you kidding?
(GUNFIRE)
ANYA (through translator): Let's
go! Let's
go! Stay down.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Like many of
these fighters,
Anya's not a trained soldier.
She was a successful
chain store owner. But she's
become a true
believer in a pro-Russian and
anti-European
future.
ANYA (through translator): The
entire Ukraine
is fighting with us following
NATO orders.
They are nothing on their own.
You are writing
that I'm a blonde separatist who
will come
and start killing your children.
Yes, I will
do just that.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Are you willing
to die for
this cause?
ANYA (through translator): Yes,
of course,
I'm ready to die for my home. I
will not let
a single fascist into my home. I
will fight
them as long as my heart beats.
NICK SCHIFRIN: When she and the
city use fascist,
it's inspired by the Soviet
Union's role in
the war against fascist Nazi
Germany. In May,
a downtown parade celebrated the
Soviet Union's
World War II victory.
Today, the children of World War
II veterans
say this war is against the same
enemy. Training
for that war starts young.
Teenage girls spend
Saturday afternoons with Russian
Kalashnikovs.
The average Russian soldier
needs more than
10 seconds to do this;
15-year-old Katerina
needs nine seconds.
KATERINA, Ukraine (through
translator): Since
I was little, I preferred
playing football
with boys to playing with dolls.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Next up, Soviet
hazmat suits.
Their teacher, Sergey Fomchenko,
is a former
Soviet soldier and police
officer.
SERGEY FOMCHENKO, Former Soviet
Soldier (through
translator): Why, when we look
toward Russia,
do they call it a crime? In
general, the whole
of Eastern Ukraine aligns with
Russia. I would
like us to be part of Russia.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Upstairs, he
shows me where
a rocket struck this school.
Ukraine and Russia
have agreed Donetsk should
eventually reintegrate
into Ukraine. But everyone we
spoke to rejected
that.
Would you ever be able to go
back to Ukraine?
SERGEY FOMCHENKO (through
translator): A lot
of blood was spilled. Many
people died. Graduates
of this school and other schools
are now in
the army. For what? To go back
to Ukraine?
I think it won't happen.
NICK SCHIFRIN: So the training
continues.
They know their AKs by heart.
NICK SCHIFRIN: So the training
continues.
They know their AKs by heart.
When they're not training,
they're proselytizing.
The Donetsk military is short on
recruits.
So the girls hand out recruiting
flyers to
fighting-age males, anyone
between 18 and
55. Katerina also rejects
returning to Ukraine,
because of what this war has
forced her to
see.
KATERINA (through translator):
There was a
shell in my apartment block.
Everything was
blown up. When someone you know
gets injured
or killed, it's very hard to
keep going.
NICK SCHIFRIN: That
unwillingness to reunite
means Donetsk, with the help of
Russia, is
becoming more and more
autonomous.
Downtown, city workers whose
salaries are
paid by Russia look after public
gardens.
In supermarkets, the shelves are
stocked with
Russian products. The only
currency accepted
is Russian rubles. Residents try
and lead
normal lives. In the main
square, with the
Vladimir Lenin statue, families
rent toy cars
by the hour.
In the opera house built under
Stalin, a matinee
showing of Giuseppe Verdi's
"Masked Ball,"
the audience was about
two-thirds full at
$3 a ticket. And across the
street, at the
Chicago nightclub, an Italian
band invited
by the local government delivers
distraction
and ideology.
But this city is an orphan. The
Donetsk People's
Republic was birthed with the
help of Russian
soldiers. Today, it's not
claimed by Russia,
and it's isolated from Ukraine.
There are
no working banks, and no way to
pick up pensions.
The best salary in town is a
soldier's, $225
per month. Vadim Bazey and
Alexandr Goryakin
are both 17.
VADIM BAZEY, Ukraine (through
translator):
Right now, there's no prospects
here.
ALEXANDR GORYAKIN, Ukraine
(through translator):
The best option in terms of
opportunities
is to go abroad, for example, to
America or
England.
NICK SCHIFRIN: But that's
impossible, because
they're physically stuck.
They can't get Ukrainian
passports. And their
Donetsk I.D.s allow access only
to Russia.
For those without the means to
leave the front
lines, life is even more
difficult.
Valentina Nikolayevna sleeps in
her cellar
because she's scared of
shelling. She hasn't
had running water or electricity
in two years.
Has it been worth it?
VALENTINA NIKOLAYEVNA, Ukraine
(through translator):
During the second World War, it
took us, the
Soviet Union, four years to
cross half of
Europe. Here, it's been two
years and we're
in the same spot.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Can you just
describe how difficult
life has gotten?
VALENTINA NIKOLAYEVNA (through
translator):
I would have never believed it
if two years
ago you would have told me I was
going to
live in a basement. Very hard.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Nearby, this is
all that's
left of the Donetsk Airport. It
was built
only four years ago. Down the
street, this
neighborhood is full of homes
partially or
completely damaged.
But this is where we found
Zakharova Vladimirovna
and her 3-year-old grandson,
Peter. They have
spent nearly the entire war on
these streets.
They invited me in their home.
Her husband,
Zakharoff Pavlovich, grew up in
this house.
A Ukrainian rocket landed in
their backyard.
ZAKHAROFF PAVLOVICH, Ukraine
(through translator):
There were so many rockets. We
just heard
the noise of one above us.
NICK SCHIFRIN: This collection
of bricks used
to be their bomb shelter. They
stay because
they fear looters. They both
agree they have
suffered, but don't necessarily
agree on the
solution.
ZAKHAROFF PAVLOVICH (through
translator):
Good people from around here
were killed.
They were good guys. What did
they die for?
ZAKHAROVA VLADIMIROVNA, Ukraine
(through translator):
We have always known this part
of Ukraine
was very different from the
rest. But we didn't
know that they hated us so much.
We want to
have autonomy here.
NICK SCHIFRIN: That desire to
separate means
they will keep fighting. But
they can't overpower
their enemy. So the front lines
will remain
frozen in place, with little
chance of a thaw.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Nick
Schifrin
in Donetsk.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tune in tomorrow,
as Nick Schifrin
continues his reporting from the
other side,
as Ukraine fights not only the
war in its
east, but deep corruption from
within.
Now the latest on the Freddie
Gray case and
the trials surrounding his
death.
Six officers were charged after
Gray broke
his neck and died while in a
police van in
Baltimore April 2015. His death
led to riots
and civil unrest. But
prosecutors have not
secured any convictions in those
trials or
in the trials of those officers
yet.
Jeffrey Brown has our look.
JEFFREY BROWN: The first
prosecution of an
officer ended in a hung jury.
The two that
followed, both heard and decided
by a judge,
resulted in acquittals.
Now Lieutenant Brian Rice has
elected to have
Judge Barry Williams decide his
fate, rather
than a jury, in a trial that
begins this week.
In the meantime, state's
attorney Marilyn
Mosby and prosecutors face wide
and critical
scrutiny.
We look at these cases and
beyond with Debbie
Hines, a former Baltimore
prosecutor and now
a practicing trial attorney, and
Lawrence
Brown, a professor of public
health at Morgan
State University. He wrote a
recent op-ed
in The New York Times titled
"More Injustice
in Baltimore."
Welcome to both of you.
I want to start with you, Debbie
Hines.
Why has it been so hard for
prosecutors to
get a conviction?
DEBBIE HINES, Former Baltimore
Prosecutor:
Well, you know, despite what
everybody thinks,
these cases have always been an
uphill battle.
They have not been the slam dunk
that the
public may think.
JEFFREY BROWN: From the start,
you mean?
DEBBIE HINES: From the start,
from the very
start.
There are circumstantial murder
cases. I have
tried circumstantial murder
cases. They are
extremely difficult, because
what we mean
when we say circumstantial is,
there's no
witness. There's no eyewitness.
The only people
that really know what happened
is the victim,
who is deceased, and the police
officers that
are tried.
So I try to compare the case not
to just this
case, but to the other infamous
case of Casey
Anthony, where everyone thought
in America
that she had killed her
2-year-old toddler,
but that was a circumstantial
case, and it's
really hard to pull them
together.
JEFFREY BROWN: Lawrence Brown,
do you buy
that as a reason for the no
convictions in
this case, or do you see
something more going
on?
LAWRENCE BROWN, Professor of
Public Health,
Morgan State University: Well, I
think that's
certainly a part of it, but
what's really
also a factor is, I don't
believe that the
prosecution has ever shown
exactly when the
murder of Freddie Gray had taken
place.
I don't think they have shown
the exact time
of the jury, who caused it? What
was -- what
is it that caused his vertebrae
to crack in
three separate places and his
voice box to
be crushed? So, without showing
that, all
the officers can say, well, I
wasn't involved
in this part, I wasn't involved
in that part,
and no one is held accountable.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, staying with
you, do you
see then -- you are saying it's
a weak prosecution
strategy? Do you think that
state attorney
Marilyn Mosby oversold or
overpromised what
she had in terms of the
evidence?
LAWRENCE BROWN: Well, I mean,
when she went
out on May the 1st, 2015, to
reassure Baltimore
and to really sort of let people
know that
she was going to seek justice
for Freddie
Gray, that had a really powerful
effect, because
it wasn't just what she said. It
was the way
she said it.
So to see now the way that the
efforts are
going, it's a real
disappointment, I think,
to many. It's not just the
police brutality
that I think a lot of people are
looking at.
It's also a way that the
prosecution and seemingly
the entire criminal justice
system is failing
people who live in those
disinvested Red Line
black communities who are more
exposed to
police brutality.
JEFFREY BROWN: Debbie Hines, of
course, from
the beginning, this case and
others have also
raised the questions of more
systemic issues
involving the police and young
black men in
particular.
Do you see -- for example, some
people have
thought that the judge might be
giving the
extra benefit of the doubt to
the police?
DEBBIE HINES: I think the judge
-- and I have
all respect for Judge Williams,
but I think
that he doesn't like the
prosecution's case.
What he is saying, though, is
not that they
have a weak case. He is saying
as to going
to what Lawrence said, that he
understands
what the prosecution is saying
as to how Freddie
Gray died at what was this
fourth stop of
the van, where he was injured at
that moment
in time.
But he also sees the defense's
position, which
is that it was a freak accident,
it just happened,
it was nothing criminal. And in
a criminal
case where a judge says, I see
what the prosecution
is saying, I see what the
defense is saying,
you can't have those things
equal, because
then the state doesn't meet its
burden of
proof.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, Lawrence
Brown, you're
in Baltimore. What is the mood
there? Is there
a gathering sense that there
just may not
be any convictions in this case
that got so
much attention and roused the
community so
much?
LAWRENCE BROWN: Well, I think
there is the
sense that people are really
disappointed
at this point in the efforts of
the prosecution
team.
Again, the passion with which
she came out
with -- Marilyn Mosby -- on May
the 1st, which
was only four days after the
uprising itself
on April the 27th, which was the
day that
Freddie Gray was being laid to
rest, you know,
it really did set up a situation
where we
thought it was a moment of
catharsis, it was
a moment of jubilation.
And now that sort of sense of
catharsis and
jubilation is rapidly fading
away with the
hung jury, two not-guilty
verdicts, and what
looks like a possibility that
none of the
officers will be held
accountable.
And I think that's something
that's very frustrating
for many residents here in the
city. And I
feel that we're really a city on
edge right
now, and I don't know that we're
really doing
anything to really address that.
JEFFREY BROWN: Debbie Hines,
there's also
been -- if you look at this case
and others
even beyond Freddie Gray, some
have said that
just by bringing them to trial,
right, it
raises enough public scrutiny to
make -- perhaps
bring some changes, certainly in
police processes.
Do you see that?
DEBBIE HINES: I definitely see
that. And I
have always said that I think
the cases should
always have been brought.
I think there was always enough
there in terms
of probable cause to bring the
cases. And
even Judge Williams, although
there may have
been the acquittals and the hung
jury, he
didn't dismiss the case. Even
today, that
is what Lieutenant Rice wanted,
was a dismissal
of the charges, and he didn't
dismiss the
charges.
But out of the cases, I see a
greater thing
happening. And what I mean by
that is, the
police department in Baltimore
has already
instituted changes as a result
of this case.
They're going to require body
cameras. They're
going to require that the police
officers
must sign off when they get the
general orders.
They can't say, oh, I wasn't at
work that
day, I didn't have the general
order.
And the most important thing in
terms of with
respect to the Freddie Gray
case, the chief
of police is saying that if
someone like Freddie
Gray or any other prisoner in
Baltimore city
requests a medic, the Baltimore
police must
take the prisoner to a hospital.
JEFFREY BROWN: This is happening
whether there
are convictions or not?
DEBBIE HINES: Exactly.
JEFFREY BROWN: OK.
Debbie Hines and Lawrence Brown,
thank you
both very much.
DEBBIE HINES: Thank you.
LAWRENCE BROWN: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Next: How much
emphasis should
we put on reading and other
subjects in the
earliest years of school and
preschool?
Some say that crucial
development through
playtime is getting lost in the
shuffle for
the very youngest students.
Special correspondent Cat Wise
has this story
for our weekly series on
education, Making
the Grade.
CHILD: Let's go, Liam. Let's go,
Karen.
CAT WISE: At ages 3, 4, and 5,
most children
want to play pretend.
CHILD: This is our babies.
CAT WISE: But in today's world
of high-stakes
academic testing, some preschool
teachers
feel pressure to put away the
baby dolls and
pick up the school books.
GERALYN BYWATER MCLAUGHLIN,
Mission Hill:
I have been teaching for 25
years, and I have
seen a big change.
So you're pretending to be the
sister? And
you're pretending to go on a
walk?
CAT WISE: Geralyn Bywater
McLaughlin teaches
prekindergarten at Mission Hill,
a public
school in Boston.
CHILD: I'm the momma.
GERALYN BYWATER MCLAUGHLIN: So
you're the
momma?
CAT WISE: She and other
educators have started
a campaign they call Defending
the Early Years.
GERALYN BYWATER MCLAUGHLIN: The
goal of Defending
the Early Years is to really
help rally early
childhood educators to push back
against this
push-down of academics into the
early years.
The standardized tests, the
disappearance
of play, teachers are feeling
it, and we're
helping to bring voice to their
frustrations
and their concerns.
CHILD: This is my baby.
CAT WISE: Bywater McLaughlin
says education
policies that tie government
funding to academic
performance like No Child Left
Behind and
Race to the Top have put
pressure on preschool
and kindergarten teachers to
prepare students
to compete in higher grades.
NANCY CARLSSON-PAIGE, Lesley
University: The
teachers feel like they're over
a barrel.
They have got to drill the kids
on these things
to get the scores so the program
doesn't lose
funds.
CAT WISE: Nancy Carlsson-Paige
is a professor
emerita at Lesley University and
author of
"Taking Back Childhood."
NANCY CARLSSON-PAIGE: There's
been a snowball
that's been rolling for 15 or 16
years. It's
propelled by a belief that you
will improve
education and close the
achievement gap if
you have accountability, if you
have more
testing.
CAT WISE: Carlsson-Paige points
to new expectations
for children to read in
kindergarten.
What's the harm in getting a
kindergartner
to learn to read? I mean, is
there a harm?
NANCY CARLSSON-PAIGE: There is
an absolute
harm. It's harmful because
you're forcing
children to learn things that
are out of step
with where they are
developmentally. And you're
doing it in a way that it
contradicts how
they learn.
CAT WISE: Advocates of Defending
the Early
Years say young children do best
in schools
that emphasize play and
project-based learning,
like Mission Hill Elementary, a
pilot school.
JADA BROWN, Mission Hill: So,
the cabinet
is for what?
CAT WISE: Here, desks are
replaced by project
areas, where kindergarten
teacher Jada Brown
says young students can pursue
interests at
their own pace.
JADA BROWN: Our school is really
focused on
trying to make sure that kids
are engaged
in activities that they are
choosing, that
they're interested in, and that
it's not the
adults who are pushing
particular things on
them.
CHILD: We could use this for
measurements.
JADA BROWN: We could use that
for measurements.
CAT WISE: On this day,
kindergartners built
cabinets for a pretend kitchen,
and learned
some math while doing it.
CHILD: We're putting a math
thing over there,
because Josie is trying to help
me with my
math.
JADA BROWN: What kind of math?
There's so much math that
actually happens
in building. How do you build a
structure?
How do you make sure that it's
standing? It's
all math. It's science. It's
trying to figure
out, how do you make something
that's stable.
NANCY CARLSSON-PAIGE: The fact
of the matter
is, play and learning are the
same thing with
young children.
CHILD: Josie, I need a few
sticks for this.
CAT WISE: How do you respond to
those that
say, but kids are coming to
school to learn,
they should be writing their
ABCs, and they
can play at home?
JADA BROWN: The home looks very
different
from school. There is a lot
that's going on
in that classroom, whether it's
art or math.
The materials that are in the
classroom are
a lot different from what you
might see at
home.
CAT WISE: Ayla Gavins is the
principal of
Mission Hill.
AYLA GAVINS, Principal, Mission
Hill: For
us, the skills are not taught in
isolation,
but they're taught embedded in
some sort of
meaningful work or exercise. I
believe they
learn more because they're
motivated.
BILLYE TOUSSAINT, Parent: What
do you think,
Ayan (ph)?
CAT WISE: Parent Billye
Toussaint's daughter
attends preschool at Mission
Hill.
BILLYE TOUSSAINT: One of the
things I really,
really wanted my own children to
have is this
ability to not always need an
adult, like,
pushing, pushing, pushing, and
able to really
take control of their own
learning.
MAN: You go straight to your
independent work.
CAT WISE: Kindergarten looks and
feels a lot
different at Harlem Prep, a
high-performing
charter school in New York City.
The focus
is on school work over play.
ROBERT PONDISCIO, Fordham
Institute: What
is the argument that is being
made here?
CAT WISE: Robert Pondiscio, a
fellow at the
Fordham Institute, who also
teaches civics
at Harlem Prep's high school,
says play-based
learning does benefit some
children, but may
not the best way to serve
low-income students.
ROBERT PONDISCIO: If you are a
low-income
kid, you don't have the
enrichment opportunities
that more fortunate kids get.
And that really
means that you show up for
school on day one
further behind. So if schools
are not aggressively
attacking that problem from day
one, those
kids will not only not catch up;
they will
fall further behind.
CAT WISE: Pondiscio believes
high expectations,
like reading in kindergarten,
have helped
Harlem Prep students excel.
ROBERT PONDISCIO: Nobody, but
nobody is going
to sensibly argue that young
children shouldn't
spend a lot of time in pre-K and
kindergarten
playing. I'm not suggesting that
we should
be turning anybody's pre-K or
kindergarten
into an academic hothouse. But I
worry that
it could become easily an
intellectual death
sentence for low-income
children.
Students like ours are simply
not going to
get that rich vocabulary, that
rich background
knowledge, that linguistic
proficiency that
other kids bring to school from
home.
CAT WISE: Harlem Prep takes
pride in preparing
children for college at a young
age; 93 percent
of the students in the Democracy
Prep Network
go on to college, including some
of the country's
most elite schools.
For her part, Nancy
Carlsson-Paige says the
best preparation for college
start with age-appropriate
teaching.
NANCY CARLSSON-PAIGE: The faulty
thinking
is, we will prepare kids to be
college- and
career-ready by drilling them on
letters and
numbers when they're really
little, and that
will get them ready for success
in school.
But the truth is the complete
opposite.
CAT WISE: Both experts agree the
final destination
should be college. The issue is
how to start
the very young on that path.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Cat
Wise.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Finally tonight:
wizards young
and old. Harry Potter is back.
And so is Jeffrey Brown, with a
look at the
latest version of Potter-mania
from his recent
trip to the United Kingdom.
JEFFREY BROWN: At Platform 9 3/4
in London's
King Cross Station, it's time
again for fans
to take the leap into the
magical world of
Harry Potter, the young wizard
of eight films,
and, of course, the books that
have sold in
the hundreds of millions.
Now Harry is back, quite a bit
older and with
children of his own, played by
actor Jamie
Parker, and for the first time
on stage, in
the new play told in two parts,
"Harry Potter
and the Cursed Child," now at
the Palace Theatre
in London's West End.
J.K. ROWLING, "Harry Potter"
Author: You have
been amazing for years at
keeping Harry Potter
secrets, so you didn't spoil the
books for
readers who came after you.
JEFFREY BROWN: It's still in
previews and
all very hush-hush, so, no, we
can't show
you scenes. Potter author J.K.
Rowling, who
worked on this with an
experienced theater
team, is begging fans not to
spoil the plot.
J.K. ROWLING: So I'm asking you
one more time
to keep secrets and let
audiences enjoyed
"Cursed Child" with all the
surprises that
we have built into the story.
JEFFREY BROWN: Time Out London
staff writer
Kate Lloyd got a look, but
wasn't giving much
away.
KATE LLOYD, Time Out London: It
felt like
going to the greatest hit show
of your favorite
pop star. It just felt like
everyone there
had read the books, loved them,
and now was
reliving the experience with a
bit of new
stuff, but it was very much
rooted in the
old stories.
JEFFREY BROWN: Just a block
away, we saw the
Harry Potter phenomenon in
action, at an exhibition
of graphic art and original film
props now
at the House of MinaLima
gallery.
Miraphora Mina and her partner
Eduardo Lima
helped create the Potter look
for the films.
Her theory of Potter's appeal?
MIRAPHORA MINA, MinaLima Design:
So everything
you see story wise and prop
wise, you as an
audience can think, oh, yes, I'm
going to
get my letter, or I'm going to
read that newspaper.
It's not a completely reinvented
world. It's
kind of the real world and
shifted about 20
percent.
JEFFREY BROWN: In many ways,
perhaps, it's
more a re-imagining than a
re-invention, something
we found some 400 hundred miles
to the north,
at the source of all things
Potter.
The story of Harry Potter itself
of course
comes with its own legends about
where it
was written, what it's all based
on. And a
lot of it began here in
Edinburgh, Scotland.
So, Eric, American student
wearing a cape.
ERIC GEISTFELD, The Potter
Trail: Ah, it's
a dream job really.
JEFFREY BROWN: Dream job.
ERIC GEISTFELD: Dream job.
JEFFREY BROWN: Why?
ERIC GEISTFELD: Read all the
books, seen all
the movies, played all the video
games, bought
all the toys since I was a
little kid.
JEFFREY BROWN:
Twenty-two-year-old Eric
Geistfeld
of Eden Prairie, Minnesota, is
finishing his
studies at the University of
Edinburgh, with
a degree in physics, real magic,
as he told
me. But he may be an even bigger
student of
J.K. Rowling and Harry Potter.
We followed as he led a group
along the city's
Potter Trail. It includes the
famed Greyfriars
Kirkyard, the cemetery where
J.K. Rowling
gathered names for characters.
ERIC GEISTFELD: Well, she
obviously got the
name from this grave because, in
the mid to
late 1990s, there used to be a
bench that
rang along this wall in
Greyfriars Kirkyard,
and she would come here and do a
lot of the
brainstorming for her first
Harry Potter novel
within these very walls.
JEFFREY BROWN: And just beyond
that.
ERIC GEISTFELD: Hogwarts, the
wizarding boarding
school.
JEFFREY BROWN: George Heriot's
School, the
inspiration for the mythical
Hogwarts School
of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
Then there's the Elephant House
Cafe, where,
as all Potter-heads know,
Rowling, then a
poor single mom, would sit for
hours with
one cup of coffee and write.
Standing over
Victoria Street, which Rowling
turned into
a kind of wizard mall in her
books, our guide
said the sense of place is a key
to understanding
the world of Harry Potter.
ERIC GEISTFELD: J.K. Rowling
came here in
the mid to late 1990s and just
saw something
in this street, sort of felt a
magic of her
own and decided to base an
entire location
off of it in the books.
The history of Edinburgh has
really bled into
Harry Potter, its settings, its
characters,
and sort of a lot of the themes
of Harry Potter
as well.
JEFFREY BROWN: Back in London,
where things
can look plenty Potter-esque as
well, Financial
Times journalist Jenny Lee told
me the spell
for her has always been in the
storytelling.
JENNY LEE, Financial Times: A
really epic
piece of storytelling, which is
incredibly
compelling and unlike anything I
had ever
read before.
JEFFREY BROWN: And as a
playwright herself,
she's interested to see how it
works in a
new form.
JENNY LEE: There is an
excitement, not a hype,
but an excitement around the
fact that it
is theater, that people can come
to the theater,
and in the same way that she got
a new generation
of kids reading, that we may get
of kids coming to theater for
the first time.
JEFFREY BROWN: This could be a
way to bring
young people to the theater?
JENNY LEE: Absolutely, I think
so. I think
that this is not going to be
published as
a novel. It's going to be
published as a play
text. And if people can't make
it to the theater,
they might just have to buy the
play text
and read that. And that could be
a young person's
first encounter with that
medium, with the
play text itself. And that
excites me.
JEFFREY BROWN: Of course, Eric
Geistfeld and
no doubt millions of others want
more than
the text, but the first batch of
tickets sold
out almost immediately.
ERIC GEISTFELD: Accio tickets.
Oh. Accio is
a summoning spell, so whenever
you wave your
wand and you yell accio, it will
fly to you.
So...
JEFFREY BROWN: Accio tickets?
ERIC GEISTFELD: Accio tickets.
JEFFREY BROWN: But they haven't
come yet?
ERIC GEISTFELD: They haven't
come yet. I assume
they're flying from London to
here, so it
might take a little while, but I
hope they're
on their way.
JEFFREY BROWN: Good luck.
ERIC GEISTFELD: Thank you.
JEFFREY BROWN: From Edinburgh
and London,
I'm Jeffrey Brown for the "PBS
NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tune in later
tonight. Our
own Hari Sreenivasan sits in for
Charlie Rose
and discusses the changing ways
we get our
news with Vox Media's Melissa
Bell.
MELISSA BELL, Vox: We can get a
little distracted
by Facebook as the sole
conversation topic.
I think that there's more of a
theme here
with the overall Internet and
how we're presenting
news to people in today's day
and age. It
is not -- it's one of many
access points where
we can meet people. It's an
opportunity, in
that there's a hungry audience
waiting for
us there, but we also need to
remember that
there's a lot of different
places for us to
reach audiences in this day and
age.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That's tonight on
"Charlie
Rose."
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening. For all of us at the
"PBS NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.